No way!
It’s useless.
Th-This is…
Itachi?
The Forbidden Visual Jutsu
Die…
Amaterasu!
I commend you for placing me under genjutsu.
However…
Sasuke! Now's your chance!
Why did you stop?
I was aware of your genjutsu long ago.
It is a far cry from Itachi's masterful Tsukuyomi
in which he freely manipulated time.
A Curse Mark that paralyzes the body.
He must have placed it back then.
Sasuke… You can't move?
I don't need to use jutsu on her.
Taijutsu, huh?
It seems he wants to preserve his chakra.
Release!
The flow of Danzo's chakra has changed.
What's he up to?
If Sasuke knows the truth about Itachi,
then the Akatsuki must know as well.
It's impossible to try to conceal the information any longer.
Why?
Why was it necessary to save the life of such trash, Itachi?
Sasuke!
Look, Itachi…
at the sorry state he’s in.
He’s your…ultimate mistake.
But he could not kill… his little brother.
He cried tears of blood
and killed every shred of feeling he had inside him,
then he killed his brethren for the sake of his village.
But he just couldn’t kill you.
Do you understand what that means?
To him,
your life was more precious…
than the village.
He broke free from the Curse Mark.
Is that Susano'o?
It's completely different from before!
Is this Sasuke?!
This chakra… He's no longer the Sasuke from before.
All right.
His hatred has matured and gained in power.
And his body is responding to it.
This is going well.
He doesn’t need my help at all.
He's aiming for my landing.
I can't weave the signs in time!
It can't be helped!
I managed to alter its path.
Danzo's chakra level plummeted with that jutsu!
Why did he go to that extent just to dodge Susano'o's attack?
The jutsu this guy's been using is supposed to make him immortal.
So the jutsu he released earlier was his own.
That was Wood Style.
I see. So that's why…
With that many Sharingan,
I knew there had to be a secret
for someone not from the Uchiha to be able to use them.
Damn Orochimaru…
It seems he and Danzo have been in close contact.
He had the cells of the First Hokage, Hashirama,
implanted in him to enhance his physical energy.
That's how he was able to control so many Sharingan.
No, he can die!
If he hadn’t countered that earlier attack, he would have died.
That's why he exhausted so much chakra!
Sasuke!
That's the real Danzo!
The jutsu that makes him invincible is broken right now!
He's vulnerable!
So that woman’s a Sensory-Type Ninja!
She figured me out.
But it's too late.
Yes!
No…
The moment Danzo weaved a sign,
something about his chakra changed.
He activated the jutsu!
I’m probably the only one who can see that.
Susano'o's attack just then was probably too late.
Damn it!
He recast the jutsu again,
but all three eyes are still closed.
As far as I can tell, he has ten Sharingan in his arm,
as well as the First Hokage's cells.
The power of the Uchiha and Hashirama.
Looks like he intends to control the Nine-Tails.
So he's after Naruto too.
Danzo's chakra level has decreased some more.
This jutsu carries a lot of risk after all.
That’s why he needed to undo the jutsu once before.
Release!
In order to preserve his chakra!
And another thing.
The Sharingan in his right arm and his jutsu are definitely linked.
The secret lies in the eyes that close!
There’s no mistake.
This is the Visual Jutsu that was forbidden even among the Uchiha.
Izanagi…
I didn’t expect to see it here, of all places.
Sasuke!
Stay calm!
The only thing I can do right now is analyze Danzo's jutsu!
Izanagi…
Where in a brief moment in time,
anything disadvantageous to the user of the jutsu,
like damage or death, can be rewritten as a dream.
And…
anything advantageous, such as the user’s attacks,
is kept as part of reality.
The ability to control the space between fantasy and reality.
An ultimate genjutsu cast upon oneself.
And the eye that uses Izanagi loses its light,
never to open again.
But…
The number of eyes he possesses…
The duration of Izanagi varies with each user.
He wanted to extend the time by whatever means
so he agreed to become a test subject for Orochimaru.
Damn that Madara…
It doesn't seem like he plans to join the battle,
but I cannot take any chances.
I must reserve enough power to take him on.
It will take some time
for the right eye I used at the summit to recover.
However, this Susano'o is not easy to deal with.
That arrow attack is difficult to dodge.
And I can’t undo Izanagi yet.
I’ll have to bet on this next minute.
Summoning Jutsu!
This Summoning…
It’s the Baku. A monster that devours nightmares.
It's much larger than I imagined.
I will not lose sight of Danzo!
No matter what!
With this, Susano'o won't be able to move.
I’ll take advantage of the Baku's suction power
to increase the force.
Wind Style: Vacuum Blast Barrage!
The vulnerable spot in Susano’o…
is here!
Fire Style… Fire Ball Jutsu!
Using Fire Style in this situation…
You made clever use of the wind that was being inhaled, Sasuke.
53…54…55… 56…57…58…59…60.
Those eyes… One closes every 60 seconds or so.
And during that time, his chakra continues to drop drastically.
Which means…
that right arm shows how much time that weird jutsu has left.
Four more left!
Or roughly 240 seconds,
approximately four minutes is the time limit of that jutsu!
While his jutsu is active,
Sasuke's attacks are made ineffective
while Danzo's attacks are successful.
The way this jutsu works…
Danzo intends to bring Sasuke down while his jutsu is still active.
Even with a mutual strike, Danzo will win!
Sasuke! I figured out a little bit of that guy's jutsu!
Listen! All right?
When all ten of your eyes have closed on your right arm,
your jutsu will be undone, isn't that so?
You knew about Izanagi?
As I suspected!
You tricked me?
What a crafty brat.
Y-You fool! Why are you engaging him?
Sasuke! Get away from him now!
Prolong the battle!
However, that wouldn't make sense.
In that case, Danzo would simply undo Izanagi.
If that happens, Sasuke, who’s used up so much strength,
would be at an overwhelming disadvantage.
Sasuke is pressing Danzo
with the super-fast, high-powered Susano’o
to force him to continue using Izanagi and thus use it up.
Sasuke figured this out early on.
Now, who will be exhausted first?
He's putting his remaining strength into a chakra blade.
This is the deciding moment.
How many Uchiha did you kill to get that right arm?!
It was Itachi who enabled me to get it.
You made him do it!
Shisui’s eye has recovered at last.
Nevertheless, Sasuke is no longer useful with that injury.
As I thought,
Madara’s the one I need to place under genjutsu and manipulate.
I can’t waste time since I have sustained injuries too.
I can’t die yet.
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Danzo Shimura"
I win.
Tune in again!